Welcome back everyone in this lecture we're going to finish some functionality for our overall project.
A couple of things we need to clear up are the actual index page.
So we want to show all the existing blog posts on the index page in order and the other thing we want
to set up is the navigation bar.
There's probably still a few links to the blog post views that we haven't set up yet.
So let's go and do the finishing touches and then we'll also be running our website to see and make
sure everything works OK.
Here we are.
Let's begin by making sure our baseline reached him file is showing the links for everything in the
navigation bar.
Because if you recall we didn't create a create Post link in the ref because we hadn't actually created
those views.
So all we're going to do here is just say your L for and then say blog posts create underscore posts
and then save those changes.
So that's actually all we need to do at the base that each team will in the in it up PI file for the
entire project.
We're going to make sure that we've have everything registered and by now you should have registered
core users blog posts and error pages.
So that's looking good.
So now we're going to do is for that core index for each team L..
Right now it just says Papy company blog.
What we're going to do is add two main components to it.
One is showing all the blog posts and we're going to be using a card component from Bootstrap to view
it and then also add some page capabilities.
So just in case there's like a thousand blog posts we don't see everything on one page so we'll begin
by actually creating cards to show all the blog posts or at least part of the blog posts and what I
mean by cards is if you come over to the bootstrap documentation and then click on components.
Eventually you'll see this card object and that's where we're going to be using to display the little
bits of the blog post.
So you can see here cart objects can take a picture they can take a title some quick text and then a
button.
So what we're going to do is we're just going to use this title for the title The blog post maybe have
a little bit of information maybe the first 100 characters of the blog post itself and then have this
button actually go to that individual blog post.
So we're going to be using a lot of these classes such as the card cards body and card title.
So all of those classic calls they come again from the bootstrap documentation.
Keep in mind you definitely don't have to use bootstrap cards.
You can really present these blog posts however you decide what we're going to be showing you.
KURTZ Just to add in a little more flair to this Cygnet delete that or as close that window and we have
a puppy company blog.
Now let's go ahead and the capabilities to show all the blog posts to do that.
I'm going to create a container class and then I'm going to create a for loop that actually goes through
the blog post so I'll save for post in blog post items.
So we should make sure that we're actually passing in this blog post in our core index view.
So let's go back to our views that file for core.
So here's the core.
And then here's views that pi.
Remember that right now the index page it just says in X-Trace Tim L..
And I mentioned to the very beginning that there was more to come here.
What I'm going to want to do is query for all the blog posts so I can display them on the actual page
and also set up the page marker.
So I'll do the following here and then to set two variables on that page equal to request Arkes that
gets page 1 and then the type is going to be integer.
And we'll be using it.
And the very next one where we say blog posts is equal to blog post.
And notice I haven't actually imported that yet.
So going to come back up here and say from Papy company blog.
Top models in your blog post.
So now I'll be able to use it and I'm going to just query and if I just say Doc query that's basically
gonna grab everything or say order by the blog post date in descending order so we see the most recent
blogs first and then we'll just call page 8 and say page is equal to page and then we can say per page
and maybe you can decide that you want 10 blog posts per page or five blog posts per page or two really
whatever you wanted.
The site is up to you.
So I say that.
So now if you take a look at index sites Sammael going to passen blog posts as blog posts.
So that's going to give me access to that in our actual template file.
So we'll come back to index each T.M. and that's how I'm not going to be able to use this blog post
the items and let's double check to make sure variable names match.
So if I come back to the index views Here's views not core.
I said Block close plural so on my index page I want to make sure it says block posts plural as well.
All right so those are the items and then I can begin creating those cards for them.
So for every single post I'm going to create a new division in the class here will be card.
And then inside of this we'll have card body.
So why bother having a picture here and then we'll do the following.
I'll say H-2 and that's going to be wups that's going to be an anchor Ted and that's tag it's just going
to be essentially a link to the actual blog post.
So we'll do the following inside of this anchor Ted I'll say the class is card dash title again just
getting that from the bootstrap documentation.
And then the text here being shown will be post-cart title.
So remember a post that's coming from here for post in this little blog post.
So grab that title and then they can click on the title and that will link to the blog post itself.
Which means I'll say your URL for and make sure I get this right.
I should be double curly braces.
You are for than I will say blog posts blog underscore post and then pass on that particular blog post
ID.
So we've actually already seen this before in previous lectures.
OK so that allows someone to click on that post title and then anchor tag reference to that actual individual
view for that single blog post.
So let's see H-2 that link is set up.
Let's go ahead and create another anchor tag here just for the written by.
So an essay written by and then whoever that posts author is so say Post the author dot username and
let's say if they want to click on that then that will take them to that user names page.
So the Tref here that's going to be your L4 will go to the users the user posts and then I say the user
name is equal to post the author dot username.
OK so what that means is the card title is basically going to link them to the blog post and then right
below that there's a link to the author in case you want to see the author page.
So it's up to you if you want to put these in size H-2A are the main things that they should be anchor
text after that.
Let's go ahead and add a publication to this.
So right below that I'm going to say create a paragraph that says published on and then we'll say grab
that post-date and let's structure the time a bit.
Really it's up to you how you want to structure it.
We'll just say year dash month dash that day it was published.
So there's that.
It was published on and then right below that who create one last Achor tag and the Saker tag is just
going to say read a blog post.
Make sure we said that right.
Read blog post.
So that's what the actual button says on that.
And then to make sure that looks like a button an asset class equal to between 10 primary and add a
lot of the structure is just grabbing it from the bootstrap documentation for cards.
And so when someone clicks on that read blog post button or when actually goes that particular block
post.
So they'll actually be the same thing as the title here.
So it's up to you if you want to make the title or up will go and make both the title link and the button
a link.
It kind of just how it performs that action.
So there's a card body I'm going to save that and that will list out all our cards for the post.
Lasser do is set up the page anation itself.
So this is actually going to be pretty much exactly what we did for the last time it works at page nation
on a user page.
So if I come back to my HMO for user blog posts remember we had if we scroll all the way down to the
bottom this page navigation example we're pretty much going to do the exact same thing here.
So I'm going to copy this and then do a couple of changes.
So again copying this from user underscore blog underscore post-dates the email then go back to the
index page right before that and block and then set up that navigation and then we're going to just
basically edit the actual links so this stays the same the sky stays the same.
This blog post left right.
That also stays the same.
If that is the same idea then that's disabled as well.
We're going to hear set of linking for user posts.
We're going to do is just link to core index.
So this will be core the index where the page numbers are equal to the page number.
So just keep that itself and then the sky is actually going to be the same thing.
So delete that username reference and then passen core indexes that there we go.
And basically all the same logic we previously discussed still holds true for this.
We just wanted to link to the core index page instead of the user page.
So save that and that should be the main things we had to fix to get some full functionality.
Let's actually begin running this and see if we need to add anything else to our Web site.
So I'm going to say Python app that PI run that lets make sure we didn't get any bugs or typos or errors.
Looks like an invalid syntax somewhere.
So it says LLF request that method is equal to get.
So under blog post views that pi.
So let's go back to that.
Use that PI file on their blog posts and it looks like it's in line 62.
So right here it says LLF request that method that should be a double equal size.
So I will save that.
Let's try running this again looks like in line 43 We also have a simple bug so we're going to come
back up to line 43 and it says function object has no attribute route.
So blog post has no attribute.
And that should be pleural blog posts.
So let's say that run this.
And looks like I do the same thing at a later line.
Actually right in the singles there.
So I'll say that slide 7 the blog post that Roe save that as well.
Make sure that do that multiple times and this one looks like I'm forgetting a little closing carat.
So let's fix that as well.
We'll come down to the blog post writing for the blog post of you will go up for that.
So right here blog post update.
That should be a closing bracket here.
And let's make sure we have a closing bracket there as well.
So that looks good.
Save that.
Let's run this.
And we had the same thing for delete.
Like we kind of were copy and pasting a couple of bugs here so close that as well.
Run this and now looks like we're running ok.
Hopefully those bugs weren't too difficult for you to debug on your way but let's make sure that everything
is running.
So I bring in this right here and right now I have no blogs so let's log out.
Let's register a new account.
So I'm going to register this new account as seven seven that com user name will be seven password will
be seven confirmed passwords seven registry that user.
And now let's put them in.
So 7 8 7 7.
Log in.
Let's create a posts.
Make sure that works.
If we don't get a bug there.
OK we'll say 7 new title and then some.
Example text or hit post.
And now it took me back to the home page and I actually see this card.
So I see this card 72 title.
If I click on that it takes me to the actual post and because I'm the same author as it I can update
it or delete it.
So let's try updating it.
So I'm going to say new title to some examples text to click post and no new title to that example text
2.
So if I come back home I see those changes as well.
So now let's see if I can actually delete that blog post.
So click delete and now notice the model or the model is popping up.
So I will click Cancel.
Make sure nothing happens so that looks good.
So now it's actually tried the link and see if this view worked.
So hit delete and that takes us back home and I no longer see that blog.
So let's create another post so we'll create another one.
Let's go.
New material title and then brand new text and I will post that to the blog.
Let's go ahead and create another one just to make sure I can create multiple ones without any errors
so I'll say in other title and some more text post that as well.
And I see another title by written by 7 new material title written by seven so that's all working.
Let's make sure that it works.
If I linked to myself so it's written by 7.
Let's click on that and it looks like I have a bug Blug it says blog post is undefined.
So let's go ahead and quickly debug this says right here under views that PI under users like 93.
This blog post is undefined so let's go to that line under the users view when we come back here.
Open this up.
I have my users down here open up their views and remember it said if we come back here to the air on
online 93 I had some sort of bug so no worries we can handle bugs.
We'll scroll down here and then on line 93 it's a blog post was undefine.
So he said blog underscore post that looks like it's working correctly.
So then it's probably an issue with the actual template.
So let's bring back our error.
So it's set in line 93 you're passing and blog posts plural and if he keeps scrolling down here eventually
you'll see that in the user blog post the h t m l I'm saying four posts in singular blog posts the items
when I'm passing it in as a plural variable.
Blog posts.
So that's easy enough to fix.
All need to do is fix that view inside of that template file.
The user blog postdates T.M. so hopefully can see what the problem was here in passing it in within
us.
But if we take a look at the user blog post HTL file.
So was this user blog post.
H Tim L.
I said four posts in blog post singular.
So just add an s there save that change and then that should fix it.
So let's refresh this 7.
Looks like a quite haven't fixed that yet.
It said could not build it for user that user post with values username.
Did you mean users user underscore posts instead.
I probably did.
It's another issue of S or no s.
So this can be kind of tricky sometimes.
So I'll say user blog post.
Line 14.
Let's go ahead and fix that real quick.
So here's my user blog post.
Line 14.
User Daut user.
Underscore posts.
I'm going to save that change come back here refreshed and now it's working.
So welcome to the page for 7.
OK so we have another title written by 7 new material title.
I can click on any of these I can update them and delete.
Let's make sure everything's working.
I'm going to log out and I'm going to register one more user so let's register 8 at 8 dot com users
8 passwords a confirmed passwords 8 will register them.
Let's go ahead and log them in.
So Ada 8.
Their password is a they can log in and if I click on this blog post to read it I get to read it.
But look I cannot update or delete it because it's not actually my blog post.
That's the blog post belonging to number 7.
So looks like everything's working and you now have a very basic company blogsite.
We learned a ton in this project and we were able to debug a couple of issues.
A lot of them had do a small typos so if you're getting those typos as well.
Remember you can always reference our notes and files and everything is finalized for you in that final
project folder.
OK I hope you find that useful and I hope you can see how you can bring.
Pretty much everything you've already talked about in the class together to get something that's highly
functional website for you to show off to your friends or colleagues.
If you have any questions on any parts of this please feel free to post the Kewney forums and we'll
be happy to help you out.
Thanks and we'll see at the next lecture.